the US says it does not seek another War
but it will protect itself and respond
appropriately following the Drone attack
that killed three American soldiers and
wounded dozens near the Jordan Syria
border at a remote Outpost called Tower
22 since Israel's retaliation for the
October the 7th attacks US military
bases in Syria and Iraq have been
attacked more than 170 times the group
behind the deaths at the tower 22 Base
called Islamic resistance in Iraq a part
of an Iranian sponsored Network across
the Middle East known as the axis of
resistance there's a number of
pro-iranian militias based in Iraq Syria
Lebanon the Palestinian territories and
as far south as Yemen all are opposed to
Israel and the United States from
Washington our North America editor
Sarah Smith has the
latest in The Situation Room President
Biden with his defense secretary is
considering his military reaction we're
told he's weighing his options he needs
to retaliate but without causing more
conflict we do not seek another War we
do not seek to escalate but we will
absolutely do what is required to
protect ourselves to continue that
mission and to respond appropriately to
these attacks shortly after he learned
of the attack yesterday Mr Biden Ved the
US will respond and we shall respond now
he needs to decide what that response
will be his secretary of state warning
other actors not to get involved from
the
outset we've been very clear in warning
that anyone looking to take advantage of
conflict in the Middle
East uh and try to expand it don't do it
the US has not said which militia group
it believes is responsible for the
attack on their base in Jordan or why
the deadly drone was not
intercepted President Biden's opponents
lay the blame on him and are demanding
he Target Iran itself in response
Senator Lindsey Graham wrote on X I'm
calling on the Biden Administration to
strike targets of significance inside
Iran not only as a reprisal for the
killing of our forces but as DET Terence
against future aggression the Senate's
top Republican Mitch McConnell said the
cost of failure to deter Americans
adversaries is again measured in
American lives and Donald Trump's
response well he claims this attack
would never have happened If I Was
President not even a
chance in Teran the Iranian government
denied involvement in the
attack a spokesman said the militias do
not take orders from
Iran the three soldiers killed yesterday
have been named as specialist Brianna
Moffett specialist Kennedy Sanders and
Sergeant William
Rivers their deaths will Mark a new
phase in America's role in the
escalating tensions of the Middle
East
so what are the options that President
Biden is weighing up inside the White
House well he could redouble America's
efforts to attack the Iranian banked
militias in the region who have been
striking at US forces but those have
obviously so far failed to deter those
groups from striking at Americans a much
more aggressive response would be to try
to Target the source of the Iranian
missiles and drones that those groups
are using he could go after uh the
Iranian Revolution guard in positions in
Iraq or Syria rather than in Iran itself
but even that would risk some kind of
escalation from Iran I mean just as the
US says it is not seeking war and it
doesn't want conflict with Iran it's
pretty convinced that Teran doesn't want
some kind of direct conflict with
Washington but everybody knows they have
to take great care in this delicate and
dangerous situation Sarah thank you Lee
duet is here with me in the studio Le as
well as focusing on how to respond to
the deaths of its Soldiers the US is
still trying to find ways to pause
Israel's war in Gaza and bring home the
remaining hostages held by Hamas which
is regarded as a terrorist organization
by many Western governments including
the UK what can you tell us in the last
hour the US's top Diplomat Anthony
blinkin that you heard in that report
said that the United States was very
very actively pursuing this now we
focused on these talks briefly last
night here on the 10 what's new today is
that there are new details provided by
the prime minister of Qatar which is
playing a pivotal role in these
discussions and he said in Washington
that they were now ready to present a
framework to Hamas after a weekend of
talks in Paris involving spy Chiefs from
Israel the United States and Egypt the
Prime Minister spoke of good progress he
said in achieving a ceasefire which
would allow um some 100 hostages being
held by Hamas um in Gaza in exchange for
thousands of Palestinian prisoners and
the delivery of more Aid now it has to
be said that today there's a less
positive assessment from Israel which
spoke of significant gaps unacceptable
conditions and one official vowing that
Israeli troops won't leave Gaza until in
his words complete Victory but Israel is
under pressure to bring the hostages
home most of all from the amilies of the
hostages so while there are gaps these
crucial talks Will Go On